[IMP] Employees - Update add employees (#16231)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/employees/new_employee.rst

  account does not exist, :ref:`cretae a new bank account <employees/add-bank>` and select it.
- :guilabel:`Home-Work Distance`: enter the number, in miles or kilometers, the employee commutes to
  work, in one direction. The unit of measure can be changed from kilometers (:guilabel:`km`) to
  miles (:guilabel:`mi`) using the drop-down menu. This field is only necessary if the employee is
  receiving any type of commuter benefits or tax deductions based on commute distances.
- :guilabel:`Private Car Plate`: enter the license plate for the employee's personal car.

.. _employees/add-bank:

Add a bank account
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When an employee is added to the database, their bank account must also be added. To add a new bank
account, type the account number into the :guilabel:`Bank Accounts` field in the *Personal* tab of
the employee form, then click :guilabel:`Create and edit..`.

A *Create Bank Accounts* pop-up window loads with the bank account number populating the
:guilabel:`Account Number` field. Next, enter the :guilabel:`Clearing Number` (also referred to as a
*routing number*) in the corresponding field.

> The employee's name populates the :guilabel:`Account Holder` and :guilabel:`Accoutn Holder Name`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The employee's name populates the :guilabel:`Account Holder` and :guilabel:`Account Holder Name`
```

click :guilabel:`Create and edit...` and a blank *Create Bank* pop-up window loads, with the bank
name populating the :guilabel:`Name` field. Next, enter the :guilabel:`Bank Identifier Code`, also
referred to as a BIC or SWIFT code. If applicable, select the :guilabel:`Intermediary Bank` using
the drop-down menu. This bank acts as a facilitator between banks for international wire transfers,
when needed. Enter the :guilabel:`Bank Address`, :guilabel:`Phone`, and :guilabel:`Email` in the
corresponding fields. Once the form is complete, click :guilabel:`Save`, and the new bank populates
the :guilabel:`Bank` field.

Click the :guilabel:`Send Money` toggle. This changes the toggle color to green, and the status
changes from :guilabel:`Untrusted` in gray text, to :guilabel:`Trusted` in green text.

The :guilabel:`Employee` field is populated with the employee's name, and cannot be modified.

Finally, add any relevant notes in the :guilabel:`Note` tab.

.. image:: new_employee/bank.png
   :alt: The Create Bank Account form with all the information filled out.

.. important::
   **All** bank accounts must be marked as :guilabel:`Trusted`, if not payments cannot be processed

>    and sent to the bank account. Having an :guilabel:`Untrusted` bank account for an employee will

Reviewer: context first per style guide? e.g.: "_To ensure that payments are processed and sent to the bank account, mark the bank account as **Trusted**_"

   cause an error in the **Payroll** application.

Emergency contact
-----------------

This section details the person to contact in the event of an emergency.

- :guilabel:`Contact`: Enter the emergency contact's name.
- :guilabel:`Phone`: Enter the emergency contact's phone number. It is recommended to enter a phone
  number that the person has the most access to, typically a mobile phone.

Citizenship
-----------

This section outlines all the information relating to the employee's citizenship. This section is
primarily for employees who are working in a different country than their citizenship. For employees
working outside of their home country, for example on a work visa, this information may be required.
Different fields may be visible, depending on the localization installed.

- :guilabel:`Nationality (Country)`: Select the country the employee is from using the drop-down
  menu.
- :guilabel:`Non-resident`: Click this checkbox if the employee lives in a foreign country.
- :guilabel:`Identification No`: Enter the employee's identification number in this field.

> - :guilabel:`SSN No`: Enter the employee's social security number.

Reviewer: looks like SS is spelled out in 19.1, do we want to reflect that?

Author: This is for 19, so I'll leave it like this since it's how 19 is (since if it is spelled out, it is obvious to the user and it won't confuse them).

- :guilabel:`Dependent Children`: Enter the number of dependent children. This number is the same
  number used for calculating tax deductions, and should follow all tax regulations regarding
  applicable dependents.

Documents
---------

This section allows for uploading any relevant documents on the employee form. Click the
:guilabel:`Upload your file` button next to the corresponding document name, navigate to the file,
then click :guilabel:`Select` to upload the file.

The documents that can be uploaded are:

- :guilabel:`ID Card Copy`: Upload any relevant ID's that may be required by the payroll or HR
  department.
- :guilabel:`Driving License`: Upload the employee's driver's license. This field may be necessary
  if the employee drives as part of their job, or is given a company car to use.
- :guilabel:`SIM Card Copy`: Upload a copy of the SIM card if the employee issuing a work-issued
  mobile phone.
- :guilabel:`Internet Subscription Invoice`: If the employee is receiving benefits or compensation
  for their internet service, upload their invoice in this field.

  .. note::
     This is for documentation purposes only. Employees must use the **Expenses** app to request

>      reimbursement for expenses, or define compensation in the *Payroll* tab.

Author: Good point - yes, it is - I specified it now. Thanks!

> Personal Information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Personal information
```

--------------------

This section houses information used for payroll and tax purposes.

- :guilabel:`Legal Name`: Enter the employee's legal name in this field. By default, the name
  entered in the :ref:`general information section <employees/general-info>` populates this field.
  This is the name that typically is used for filing taxes.
- :guilabel:`Birthday`: Select the birthday of the employee using the calendar selector.
- :guilabel:`Place of Birth`: Enter the city or town the employee was born in the first field, and
  select the country using the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Gender`: Select the employee's gender from the drop-down menu. The default options are
  :guilabel:`Male`, :guilabel:`Female`, and :guilabel:`Other`.

> - :guilabel:`Payslip Language`: Select the language used when printing the employee's payslips.

Reviewer: is it set to `user language` by default?

Author: No, it's totally blank by default (which is odd) - I think because the user's language is not a required field, so if it was linked ot that, and it was blank, it might freak out

fields as the *Create User* pop-up window. Fill out the form, then click :guilabel:`Send
Invitation`. AN email invitation is sent to the user, informing them their account has been created.

Users can also be created manually. For more information on how to manually add a user, refer to the
:doc:`../../general/users/` document.

.. image:: new_employee/new-user.png
   :alt: The invite a user pop-up window, configured.

.. _employees/approvers:

Approvers
---------

To see this section, the user must have either :guilabel:`Administrator` or :guilabel:`Officer:
Manage all employees` rights set for the **Employees** application. For the category to appear, the
respective app must be installed. For example, if the **Time Off** app is not installed, the
:guilabel:`Time Off` approver field does not appear. Only one selection can be made for each field.

  .. important::
     The users that appear in the drop-down menu for the :guilabel:`Approvers` section **must** have
     *Administrator* rights set for the corresponding human resources role.

     To check who has these rights, go to :menuselection:`Settings app` and click

>      :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Manage Users` in the :guilabel:`Users` section. Then, click

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Manage Users` in the *Users* section. Then, click
```

>      on an employee, then click into the :guilabel:`Access Rights` tab. Scroll to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     on an employee, and go to the :guilabel:`Access Rights` tab. Scroll to the
```

       for the :guilabel:`Expenses` role.
     - In order for the user to appear as an approver for :guilabel:`Time Off`, they **must** have
       either :guilabel:`Officer:Manage all Requests` or :guilabel:`Administrator` set for the
       :guilabel:`Time Off` role.
     - In order for the user to appear as an approver for :guilabel:`Timesheets`, they **must**
       have either :guilabel:`Officer:Manage all contracts` or :guilabel:`Administrator` set for the
       :guilabel:`Payroll` role.
     - In order for the user to appear as an approver for :guilabel:`Attendances`, they **must**
       have :guilabel:`Administrator` set for the :guilabel:`Payroll` role.

- :guilabel:`HR Responsible`: Select the user responsible for validating the employee's contracts
  using the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Expense`: Select the user responsible for approving all expenses for the employee using
  the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Time Off`: Select the user responsible for approving all time off requests from this
  employee using the drop-down menu.
- :guilabel:`Timesheet`: Select the user responsible for approving all the employee's timesheet
  entries using the drop-down menu.

> - :guilabel:`Attendance`: Select the user responsible for approving all attendance entries for the

Reviewer: consider mentioning after list, tooltip for these settings says "_If empty, the approval is done by an Administrator or Approver (determined in settings/users)._"

  employee using the drop-down menu.

> Application settings

Author: That is for accounting an  expenses, together - so it doesn't appear by default, and is related to expenses (so it is in those docs)

Appraisal
---------

This field is **only** visible if the **Appraisals** application is installed.

- :guilabel:`Next Appraisal Date`: The date automatically populates the date of the next appraisal
  which is computed according to the settings configured in the **Appraisals** application. This
  date can be modified using the calendar selector.

Planning
--------

This section is **only** visible if the **Planning** app is installed, as this section affects what
the employee can be assigned in the **Planning** app.

- :guilabel:`Roles`: Select all the roles the employee can perform using the drop-down menu. There
  are no preconfigured roles available, so all roles must be :ref:`configured in the Planning app
  <planning/roles>`. There is no limit to the number of roles assigned to an employee.
- :guilabel:`Default Role`: Select the default role the employee will typically perform using the
  drop-down menu. If the :guilabel:`Default Role` is selected before the :guilabel:`Roles` field is
  configured, the selected role is automatically added to the list of :guilabel:`Roles`.

.. _employees/hr-attn-pos:

> Attendance/Point of sale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attendance/Point of Sale/Manufacturing
```
